chmod
=====

Author: S Brodie
Date:   27 August 2000

This tool provides the same sort of functionality as the UNIX tool of the
same name: namely to change the access permissions on files and directories
as per a specification provided on the command-line.

See other documentation for usage.

This software works by constructing a list of changes to be made to file
attributes.  This is a list of pset structures.  Each pset structure has
three main attributes (+ the next pointer) which are:

  c :  access class (user, group, other or a combination)
  op:  operation     (add, remove, force to this value)
  p :  permissions   (the bits to affect)
  

All the filesystem processing is in riscos.c; the parameter parsing and
structure building is all done initially in chmod.c.

As each file or directory is processed, the list is processed in order to
change the bits in the attributes, and when the list is exhausted, the
object's permissions are altered with OS_File 4 (if they have changed). This
work is all done in function process_generic.

Function do_scandir was borrowed from EraseCVS 0.08.  It is a recursive
directory enumerator which uses a manual name stack to optimise directory
enumeration.  As it finds each object, it calls process_generic to examine
and modify that object.  If the recursive option is used, then as each
directory is located, it is pushed onto the stack at "ptr".  Following the
completion of the directory being processed, each stacked directory is popped
in turn and recursively enumerated.

The list of objects to process is also held in a linked list.  This is seeded
initially from the command-line parameters.  Currently, nothing else is ever
pushed back onto it, but the idea is that if globbing is supported properly,
then the enumerator should push each matching directory onto this structure.

Function process simply drains this linked list and invokes do_scandir on
each parameter.  If the parameter contains no indication that it is a
directory (ie. no . characters), the directory is assumed to be @, and the
parameter is passed as the filter to do_scandir.



--Stewart
