
BuildNotes for Connect and MailServ
-----------------------------------

Author: S.Brodie
Date:   5 May 1998

Last change: 13 August 1998


This build structure is suitable for building either Connect or MailServ.
Effectively, Connect is just a single-user version of MailServ.

IMPORTANT: When you have built a release, you must erase all the CVS
information from the exported directory tree.  Use EraseCVS for this - ask
a CVS guru about this.

VERY IMPORTANT: Do not edit the Templates file without extreme caution as to
which template editor you are using.  The message tags in the configuration
file map *directly* to icon handles in specific windows and when the program
needs an item of information, it just reads the text of the icon.  If you
mess up the Templates file, you will get all sorts of crazy aborts when you
try to run the application.  With any luck, you should get log messages
(fatal class messages) in the Log file if this happens now that I've
protected the functions against the worst problems.

Note that the language specific files (in Resources.${LOCALE}) for Connect
are automatically generated from the MailServ resource files - the only
difference being the change in application name.  This modification is
performed by the sed tool.  Add error messages and the like to
Resources.*.!MailServ.Messages and they will  be picked up by Connect
automatically.

Running !Mk will build both !Connect and !MailServ to a directory called
Export in the package root.  The code images are built to the aif directory.
They are then placed in the export directory via the squeeze tool.

Ignore the warning about the cast of a pointer to a pointer to function -
that one's OK.  The others I have no idea whether they cause major
problems and I haven't had the time to track through them all yet  - the
compiler does appear to be right about all three of the warnings, though.

NOTE: !Connect.provlist is automatically generated from the MailServ file so
that only one needs to be maintained.  sed is used to change all the system
variables and comments to refer to Connect instead of InterTalk.  Also note
that the provlist file is searched for the string "Acorn" and if it is found,
awk will issue a diagnostic.  Depending on the setting of AWKFLAGS in the
makefile, this will either just be a warning, or will be an error which will
stop the build.  This is designed to prevent "accidents" involving releases
of provlist files which contains the dialup details for Acorn House.

Do not change the TaskName message in the Connect messages file.  !Mail
will stop working if you do.


-- THE END (for now).

