                                                    Macrovision_LoadCaptions
                                                                (SWI &4D541)

  Pass data to the SAA7183 chip for encoding on line 21

On entry
  R0 = flags
       Bit     Meaning when set
       0       data is for even fields rather than odd fields
       1       recalculate parity bits
       2       flush the buffer before inserting the new data
       others  reserved, must be zero
  R1 -> bytes to encode
  R2 = number of bytes pointed to by R1

On exit
  All registers preserved

Use
  The NTSC television standard allows two bytes of digital data to be
  encoded on line 21 of each field. These may hold closed captions
  (subtitles for the deaf - there is a legal requirement that all TV sets
  13" or larger sold into the USA since July 1993 must be able to decode
  these), text services (carrying data which is generally not programme-
  related) and extended data service data - packets containing information
  such as:
  * network name and TV station call-letters
  * the current time, date and timezone
  * the delay the TV station applies to network programmes
  * now-and-next programme name, description, category, rating, start time
    and duration
  * the elapsed programme time
  * picture aspect ratio
  * details of audio tracks (language, stereo, etc)
  * VCR control signals

  The odd fields of the video signal are used to carry caption channels 1
  and 2 and text services 1 and 2. The even fields are used for caption
  channels 3 and 4, text services 3 and 4, and the extended data service.

  In each field, two 7-bit, odd parity bytes are transmitted; they are
  preceded by run-in clocks and framing code.

  This SWI places a number of bytes into one of two (small) FIFO buffers,
  out of which data is read 2 bytes at a time, once per frame. If the buffer
  should underrun, null bytes are output (which the TV will ignore), rather
  than leaving the SAA7183 registers at their last value (which would repeat
  every frame) or disabling the line 21 signal (which the TV would detect,
  and clear its overlay memory).

  Flag bit 0 is used to select which field the data is to be output on.

  Flag bit 1 is provided to allow data to be input from a source that does
  not already have parity bits set correctly.

  Flag bit 2 allows the buffer to be flushed before the data is inserted.
  The buffer will still be flushed even if the number of bytes (specified in
  R2) is zero.

  Note that an NTSC Macrovision video path must be in use for caption data
  to be output. This can either be selected via Macrovision_SetState, or by
  Macrovision_CaptionControl (see below).(Anti-taping is optional.)

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                  Macrovision_CaptionControl
                                                                (SWI &4D542)

  Perform fast switching between closed-caption and graphics overlay modes
 
On entry
  R0 = flags
       Bit 0 clear => Switch to graphics overlay mode
       Bit 0 set   => Switch to closed caption mode
       others  reserved, must be zero

On exit
  All registers preserved

Use
  Due to hardware limitations within the STB22 series machines, closed
  caption data can only be reinserted on line 21 of the TV signal when using
  what is known as the 'Macrovision video path'. This video path does not
  allow the ARM7500FE's graphics to be mixed with the MPEG movie output in
  the normal manner (although it does allow a limited 8-colour overlay,
  controlled by the ARM7500FE's extension (ED) palette).
    Selection of video path is normally performed by means of the
  Macrovision_SetState SWI call. However this call only takes effect when a
  full screen mode change is performed, which can take significant time to
  perform, and always clears the graphics screen to black.
    The Macrovision_CaptionControl SWI provides a faster way of switching
  between the closed-caption mode and the full colour graphics overlay mode.
    It assumes that a 16 bit-per-pixel graphics mode has already been
  selected (eg 704 x 480). When switching into graphics overlay mode, the ED
  palette is programmed so that bit 15 of the pixel value, when set, causes
  the MPEG picture to show through; when bit 15 is clear, the graphics
  overlay shows.
    When switching into closed caption mode, the ED palette is programmed so
  that the graphics overlay is completely disabled. This allows a graphics
  overlay to be drawn on the screen invisibly, and then made instantly
  visible by switching back into graphics overlay mode.
    (Technical note: in order to avoid any horizontal shifting of the
  MPEG/graphics when switching between these two modes (due to different
  delays in the two video paths), two additional system variables have been
  defined.
    'Macrovision$RCV2SN' is used as an offset which is added to the value of
  Macrovision$RCV2S when the graphics overlay mode is selected, but not when
  the closed caption mode is selected. This affects the MPEG positioning.
    'Macrovision$RCV2EN' is used as an offset which is added to the value of
  Macrovision$RCV2E when in graphics overlay mode, but not in closed caption
  mode. This affects the graphics overlay positioning.
    In practice, since the graphics overlay is currently disabled via the
  palette when in closed caption mode, the latter isn't actually necessary.
  However this value needs to be taken into account when considering values
  to put in Macrovision$RCV2E.)
