System-level support for Macrovision is as follows:-

1) Provision of (initially) two Macrovision screen modes.
   These are both 720 x 576 x 4bpp (note: *not* 768 x 576).
   The numbers of these screen modes should not be built into

Of the 16 pixel values available in this mode:

 pixel values 0 to 7 are always transparent (ie show MPEG movie)
 pixel values 8 to 15 are solid colours
  (the default set of colours to be specified by DEC - is a grey scale
adequate?)

The colours of pixel values 8 to 15 can be redefined after selecting this
mode, by using the existing call for palette reprogramming, viz.:-

 SWI XOS_CallAVector

 in:    r0 = logical colour (in the range 8 to 15)
        r1 = 16 (indicates normal colour, rather than pointer or border)
        r2 = colour value:
                bits 0..7 must be zero
                bits 8..15 contain the red value
                bits 16..23 contain the green value
                bits 24..31 contain the blue value
        r4 = 2
        r9 = 0x23 (indicates vector number for PaletteV)

 out:   r4 = 0
        Other registers preserved

Using bit 3 of the pixel value to indicate transparent/solid like this
would allow the application software to build up a menu screen in
advance using colours 0 to 7, and then make the screen appear
instantaneously by plotting a rectangle over the whole screen with
exclusive-OR action on bit 3.

When the screen mode is initially selected, the screen will be cleared to
pixel value 0, ie transparent.

2) Provision of a call to enable/disable Macrovision function.
The Macrovision chip video path will automatically be selected when the
Macrovision screen mode is entered, but the application needs to also
control the actual enabling of the Macrovision anti-taping functionality.

3) Additions to the MPEGVideo module:-

Extra bit in VideoStructure_Flags which selects YUV output from the CL450
instead of RGB output.

I am hoping that DEC do not require to switch between the normal video path
and the Macrovision video path while an MPEG stream is open. If they *do*
require this, then an additional call will be needed in the MPEGVideo to
switch between RGB and YUV on the fly.
 On this point, I think we may have problems switching seamlessly between
normal and Macrovision video paths, particularly if we have MPEG video
playing and visible both before and after, because the CL450 has to switch
between RGB and YUV at the same time as the video path is switched.
