Implementation document: record block & cache interaction.

24/11/95: TGR: Preliminary version

See accompanying file 'DiscInfo'

Disc Information Records
------------------------

Information about drives and discs is cached on a per disc basis. 

When a new disc is come across, it will be alloted a disc information record
(structure) as follows:-

   (1) If there exist unused disc information record it will be allocated the
first of those that the search comes across. A free disc information record
has a drive number of -1.

   (2) If there are no free disc information records, but there exist disc
information records for discs which have no open files on them and which are
not currently in the drive, it will be allocated the first of these which the
search comes across. A disc information record for a disc known not to be in
the drive will have a sequence number of -1.

   (3) If there are no such disc information record then the error, 'Files
open on too many discs' will be returned.

   The information stored in a disc information record is as followed:

     (i) A pointer to the disc name, if any;
    (ii) The last known drive number the disc was in;
   (iii) The sequence number for that drive & disc, if still believed to be
         in the drive or -1;
    (iv) The WhichDisc value for the disc so that ambiguous disc names are
         detected;
     (v) The root directory address to avoid repeatedly reading the PVD;
    (vi) The root directory length to avoid repeatedly reading the PVD;
   (vii) The logical block size for that disc;
  (viii) The disc type of the disc;
   [(ix) Number of files open on disc????]

Directory Sector Buffers
------------------------

ISO9660 directories must start and end on physical sector boundaries, so
it makes sense to cache them as 2048 byte sectors rather than translate to
varaible length sectors as previous versions of CDFS have done.

The user can configure the number of the directory sector buffers available.

A sector buffer information block is an array of records (structs). Each
record contains a pointer to a disc information record, and a logical block
address. This is its way of keeping tracks of which sector buffer currently
belongs and from which (physical sector) address on that disc the buffer was
read.
   The index into the sector buffer information array will be the same as the
index into the array of sector buffers which are allocated in a contiguous
block.
   Should a disc be dismounted by the user or should the free disc
information records become exhausted necessitating the re-use of an old one,
the dismount routine should check to see if any cached directory sectors were
associated with that disc, and if they were the disc information record
pointer should be set to NULL to indicate that the information in that sector
buffer is no longer valid.

Open File Records
-----------------

Everytime a new file is opened, space for a open file record is allocated and
these are placed on a linked list. Each of these contains:

     (i) a pointer to the next block, or NULL;
    (ii) a pointer to the relevant disc information block;
   (iii) the starting logical block address of the file;
    (iv) the extent of the file.

When a file is closed the open file record is removed.
