
Changes log for Boca release
----------------------------

0.29 - 10 June 1998

 - When using the safe area feature the mouse pointer is now
constrained. This stops the wrap-around affect that was occurring.
 - Added support for the Windows keys (left, right and menu).
 - Enabled autodialling when trying to connect to Citrix server.
 - Changed client name generation so that it uses the smartcard login
name.

0.28 - 2 June 1998

 - Now gives message when using the exit hotkey (shift F3) so that you 
can back out.
 - Now picks up USA keybaord and notifies server accordingly.
 - Fixed printer list so a reasonable printer should be
auto-configured on the server when logging in.
 - Added hourglass calls around the initial connection.
 - Fixed startup so that the connection dialogue box should always be
shown.

0.27 - 20 May 1998

 - Miscellaneous non-NC changes.

0.26 - 15 May 1998

 - Added 'server browsing'. This allows 'Application Publishing' and
load balancing to work.

0.25 - 12 May 1998 Boca beta release


Known problems and work arounds
-------------------------------

As of 0.29

1) Entering a bogus URL on the smartcard leaves you unable to continue 
without power cycling.

Workaround: Although we cannot fix this in the time available you can
instead simply withdraw the smartcard. This will drop the line and
return to the initial Welcome screen. You can the reinsert the
smartcard, re enter your PIN and correct the URL.

2) Entering an ica: URL on the smartcard doesn't work.

Workaround 1: Use an http: or ftp: URL that points to a .ica file. eg

  ftp://ftp.acorn.co.uk/ica/demo.ica

Workaround 2: Prefix the ica: URL with 'ncint:loadurl?url=' eg 

  ncint:loadurl?url=ica://136.170.130.74/

Both of these workarounds pass the responsibility of starting the ica
client from the dialler to the browser so work without having to alter
and reaudit existing software. Unfortunately if you exit from the
citrix session you end up back at the Welcome screen as if a bogus URL
had been entered. As of version 0.30 the line will be dropped at this
point.


Note on printers
----------------

You should find on the current version that if a printer is configured
on the NC then when the WinFrame session is entered a printer is
configured with an equivalent printer driver. This appeared in version
0.28. The printer driver selected may not be the best one for the
printer connected as one printer code is used on the NC for several
similar printers, however it should be at least a compatible driver.


-- 
Simon Middleton
smiddleton@acorn.com
12 June 1998
