
Changes to NCMA for Boca 1.20 NC
--------------------------------

Boca are very worried about the problem that manifests as follows.

 - User enters bogus URL on the smartcard, either it's a bad scheme or
bad host name

 - In the first case nothing happens at all, the user is just left on
the Welcome screen and can do nothing except withdraw the smartcard or
power off

 - In the second case the browser brings up its usual error box, after
it is cleared then the user is in the same position as the first case.

The desired behaviour is for the user to be told that the smartcard
URL needs changing and for them to be either
 - off-line and back at the Welcome screen, or
 - on-line and on a default page (a blank one in the ROM for example)

We don't want to change the browser so what can be done inside NCMA?

 - ncma_open_url() could check the URL to see whether it's sensible
before passing it to the browser. It would

 a) check that the scheme is one that the browser can understand
(http, ftp, gopher, file, ncint, ncfrescointernal). Although
theoretically it should be able to handle any scheme with an
associated Alias$RunType currently NCMA doesn't handle running apps,
just sending the message.

 b) extract the hostname from http, ftp or gopher and attempt to
resolve it.

If either of these failed then it would bring up a new HTML error box
and set the state to something suitable.

This would catch most of the problems. What it wouldn't catch is the
case where the host name exists but isn't running the appropriate type
of server. It isn't really feasible to check for that however. Also it
should hopefully be rare except in the cases where the site is
temporarily down.

An associated change which would help this case would be 
 - when ncma has started the browser going off surfing then it should
set its state to something where it will allow clicking on the connect 
or welcome buttons to do something.

Actions
-------

 - Add new command 'ncma:hangup'. This will do
	 ncma_hangup();
   	 ncma_dbox_close();
    	 ncma_url_open(URL_PATH(connect.html));
    	 return(State_NCMAConnect);

   And is called from 'State_NCMABooted'
   And requires a new transition Trans_HangUp.

   This could be used by the ICA client when it finishes to do a
   proper restart.

 - Check for sensible URL in ncma_url_user(). Return FALSE and do
   nothing if it isn't sensible.

 - Do Trans_HangUp if ncma_url_user() returns FALSE in either
   of its calling cases.

 - Add transition 'Trans_URLConnectNak' to NCMA_Booted state. Do
		     ncma_hangup();
  		     ncma_url_open(WELCOME_SCREEN_URL);
     		     run_from_powerup = 0;
             	     return(State_NCMAInit);

 - Add transition 'Trans_URLConnect' to NCMA_Booted state. Do
		     ncma_url_open(BLANK_PAGE_URL);

   where the blank page is a new page designed for the case where
   there is nowhere else to go to.

 - These last two will allow the Connect and Welcome buttons to work
   when the box is on-line. This would have the danger of them doing 
   interrupting the initial fetch. However that can happen anyway as
   merely clicking on them is enough to stop the initial fetch.

   This would at least make them do *something* - even if it wasn't
   what the user wanted.

 - Also need to change the smartcard connection button so that it
   drops the line and flushes the cache so that the changes to the
   smcartcard details are noticed. Tricky because it is a file link.

   Will need to change this link to be a new ncma:smartcard link which 
   goes to the smartcard page, optionally dropping the line and
   flushing the smartcard.


What was done
-------------

In the end the hostname checking code has been taken out as it caused
the box to hourglass after connection for 10 seconds or more whilst
the name was looked up and this seemed unacceptable. The code is still 
in there -DVERIFY_URL.

The ncma:smartcard command was not needed as ISPCapture calls ncma
preconnect which gives us the opportunity to drop the line and reset
the state.

Simon Middleton
24 June 1998
