At the moment (3.71), the only place that the combo chip is
'messed about with' is in the kernel.

As of Ursula/Phoebe, the combo chip is changed to a SMCFDC37C67x
which loses the IDE, and gains PS/2 ports.

As a result of this, the PS2Driver needs to know what controller
device it is running on. This can be done either compile-time or
run-time. Note that all other combo-users have hard-coded addresses
in, which is OK, as the combo chip sticks with these addresses as
they are PC-standard.

So, should the PS2Driver know the combo chip at compiletime, or
figure it out at runtime?

Ideally, it would be nice to have the combo chip stuff taken out
of the kernel, and placed in a seperate module. Note: As far as I'm aware,
the kernel itself has no knowledge of the combo chip other than what is stored
in the iotype location in kernel workspace. This may seem ott, but
there are other considerations:

At the moment, the device drivers set up the irq stuff, while the kernel
sets up the location of the register blocks. However, Phoebe has IOMD2, and
will have the combo-chip interrupts mapped in a different manner to
that on RPC/IOMD or FastNC/IOMD

So, it would seem that the most future-proof solution is to take the combo
chip initialisation code (which is only 20-30 lines) out of the kernel,
and place it in a low-numbered module (ideally position 2, but definitely
lower than any of its potential clients, the first of which is PS2Driver at
position 12)

This module need not be restricted to the combo-chip functionality, as
such things as CMOS, IDE etc may also be catered for. It is envisaged that the
module would provide a SWI interface which returns the necessary information,
preferably in some sort of uniform manner.

So, for all devices, we will have:

Base address
Register block size
IRQ register address
IRQ bitmask (1 indicates interest)

Note that for some things it's plausible that we have several discrete
register blocks, and also possibly more than one irq register.

Note that this module should _not_ initialise on pre-Ursula systems. If it
does, it'll be a bloodbath.