Known bugs in Menu CSE
----------------------

1  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  FIXED (probably)

I renamed an "open" menu object, and the machine froze. Not repeatable.

2  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  NOTABUG

Double-Click SELECT on the menu title. The first click is interpreted as
"Click SEL not on entry" and so the current selection is lost; 'twould be
better if this were not so.

3  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  FIXED

The title for the editing window should be "Menu: <obj name>".

4  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  DEFER

Clicking ALT-SEL on a menu entry or the menu's title should display a small
transient dialogue box in which the entry's text (or menu title) is shown
for editing. This is not implemented yet.

This should be removed from the specification (for the time being at least):
  a) it's easy to double-click, type new value, and hit RETURN;
  b) it would also be needed for gadgets such as action buttons and labels
      in the Window editor.

5  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  FIXED

The title of the palette window should be "Menu palette", not "Menu Palette".

6  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  NOTABUG

There are problems with the display of pairs of adjuster arrows:
  - Look at those to the right of the "Length" fields in the Menu properties
     dialogue box.
  - Try clicking on the left adjuster arrow of any pair.
  - Redraw problems have also been observed.
(Mode 31).

7  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  FIXED

ESCAPE does not remove Menu [entry] properties dialogue boxes. This is
because this key press is not passed down to such objects - instead, it is
used to kill any foreground interaction. Needs some further thought.

8  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  NOTABUG

When a Menu [entry] properties dbox gains the caret (by clicking in a
writable icon, for example) any editing window which previously had the
input focus loses its yellow title bar, but any selection inside it is
not de-emphasised.

9  MFC  13-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Menu [entry] properties dboxes should gain input focus whenever the user
clicks in them - not just when they click in a writable icon (see Style
Guide).

10 SAH  31-Mar-94  -  DEFER

The menu title in the editing window does not have the "stippled" background
of RISC OS 3 menus; more generally, the menu displayed in the menu editing
window should conform to the "New Look" - provided the correct CMOS bit is
set.

This turns out to be a difficult task, since the menu title is made up of a
number of sprites in RISC OS 3.5; it would be even more difficult to simulate
in earlier versions of RISC OS. Generally deemed not worth the effort.

11 SAH  31-Mar-94  -  FIXED

Should use the RISC OS 3 version of Wimp_Initialise(..) - and so should
!Window.

12 SAH  31-Mar-94  -  FIXED

The !Help support scheme isn't perfect - for example, only the first of a
pair of adjusters responds properly.

13 MFC  19-Apr-94  -  FIXED

It appears that all help messages (menu, or menu entry) are the empty string
when not explicitly set; this is not ideal! Ian suggests that it's sufficient
for !Menu to replace null strings by -1 when outputting the resource file.

14 MFC  19-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Positioning of text inside menu entries in the Palette is not perfect.

15 IDJ  21-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Selected faded menu entry obliterates content.

16 IDJ  21-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Cannot set length of help text to zero.

17 IDJ  21-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Cannot set ComponentID field to zero (which is a valid value).

18 IDJ  21-Apr-94  -  FIXED (probably)

Click around in the Menu entry properties dbox, including adjust click on OK
and clicks on option buttons, and entry of object names and eventually the
string &20012564 will appear in the "Other" writable for Click or Submenu
action. [More details would be appreciated - MFC!]

19 MFC  25-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Keyboard shortcuts do not work until after a menu has been opened once. For
example, ^A has no effect on a virgin menu editing window.

20 IDJ  25-Apr-94  -  COMMENT

When reading in a resource file (relocate_object(..)), the objectoffset field
is used to determine where the body starts. This means that it would be at
least plausible for an old version of !ResEd to read in newer versions of
resource files safely. But when a file is written out - that is, when an
object is reassembled - it is reassembled to the *current* format. Might it
be sensible to try to save any data between the known object header and the
body start, and reoutput this? This whole area of versions needs thinking
about very carefully!

21 MFC  28-Apr-94  -  FIXED (probably)

Load menu object into !Menu. Export messages by dragging Save as icon to
!Edit icon on icon bar. Import by dragging Save as box from !Edit window to
Menu icon in Shell window. Repeat this - and all ResEd windows - and the
icon from the icon bar - and the Menu Editor task - all disappear. But the
computer does not crash. This is repeatable.

22 MFC  28-Apr-94  -  COMMENT

Reloading messages for a menu object that is being edited causes any menu
entry properties dboxes that are open to be closed - but leaves any menu
properties dbox open. This is a trifle inconsistent - especially as the
window editor seems likely to close them all - including the editing window
itself. See (23) below, as well.

23 MFC  29-Apr-94  -  COMMENT

Reloading messages also causes any selected menu entries in the window to be
deselected - for the same reason as (22) above.

24 MFC  17-May-94  -  FIXED

The Length field for Help text blanked out after playing with the help text
field and with other parts of the Menu entry properties dbox - and did not
return correctly until the dialogue box was closed and reopened.

25 MFC  23-May-94  -  FIXED

Load a menu object, now change its name in the shell - the message "Illegal
window handle" is displayed. This is because menuedit_rename_menu(..) calls
props_update_menu_dbox(..) regardless: this call should only be made if the
menu properties dbox exists.

26 MFC  25-May-94  -  FIXED

Update code and dialogue box behaviour to match that of !Window wrt null
and empty values. (In particular, implement the Help option button).

27 NK   25-Jul-94  -  FIXED

Give the caret to the menu entry text field whenever a menu entry properties
dbox is first opened - this is far more useful than giving it to the
componentid field!

28 MC   10-Aug-94  -  FIXED

The menu entries in the palette are not displayed correctly anymore.

29 DH   11-Aug-94  -  FIXED

If a menu entry is given text and a keyboard shortcut, only the shortcut is
displayed (introduced in this release!).

30 MFC  18-Aug-94  -  FIXED

Only ^A and ^Z keyboard shortcuts should be recognised by the palette window.

31 MFC  02-Sep-94  -  DONE

Add support for client-specified events for "Before showing" and "When
hidden" menus; requires a new version of the menu resource file format.

32 MFC  14-Sep-94  -  COMMENT

A minor bug with use of "*" in length fields (also affects other CSEs in
similar circumstances). When an optional string is switched off (eg consider
Help text), the length can be zero - and this should be the default. But
although this is the value stored, when the UP adjuster arrow is clicked, the
new value displayed is 2 - not 1. This is because gui_adjust_len(..) does not
look at the "opticon" to determine what the length should be, but simply
looks in the value icon itself - which will probably have an empty string.

33 NK   21-Sep-94  -  FIXED

Copying menu entries is not being done properly - the "Show object" string is
not cloned.

34 MFC  23-Sep-94  -  FIXED

The wording of the labelled box in the Menu properties dbox for events before
showing should read "Deliver event before showing".
