Compile time flags for the ATM25 device driver
----------------------------------------------

In the main project makefile, you can specify a number of flags which alter the way in which the
ATM25 device driver is built. If you alter any flags, you should run 'MakeClean' before running 'Make'.

All flags should be present in the makefile, prefixed by either -U to turn the flag off, or -D to
turn it on. Do not delete flags from the makefile - just change the prefix to toggle them. If each flag
listed below does not appear in the makefile, behaviour is undefined.


Flag			Effect
----			------
DEBUG			Makes the atm25 driver display all sorts of info using printf. This may trash
			your display in the desktop.
			
DEBUG_TRAIL		Keeps a record of the last 1024 message headers and extension words parsed
			by the irq handler. These can be displayed with the '*atm25trail' command.
			
RUNS_ON_ARM700		This flag enables nasty hacks which make the driver work on an ARM700 type
			machine. This doesn't affect operation on ARM600 type machines, so is best
			left in. The nasty hacks take the form of slight delays in the irq handler, so
			that the atm25 card can keep up with the ARM processor.
			
LIMIT_TABLES		The commands 'atm25mast' and 'atm25listen' normally only print active entries.
			Setting this flag makes them display _all_ entries, whether they're active or
			not.
			
USE_DYNAMIC_AREAS	This flag instructs the driver to use dynamic areas for MPEG buffer space.
			If this flag is not set, the driver will use malloc() to claim workspace from
			the RMA. This flag is highly recommended.
			
PACKET_JUNKING		If the irq handler receives what it thinks is a bogus packet and this flag is
			set, the irq handler will attempt to purge the entire message block from the
			Boson FIFO. It tries to do this as intelligently as possible, but sometimes
			fails because it just can't figure out what the hell is going on (GIGO).
			Unsetting this flag will turn off packet junking - results may be unpredictable.
			
FIFO_RECOVER		Setting this flag makes the driver attempt to restore the Boson FIFO to a sane
			state if it detects that it is in disarray. The state of the FIFO, and the 
			number of FIFO recovers attempted is shown by the 'atm25boson' command.
			
LLC_SNAP_SUPPORT	Causes the ATM25 driver to use LLC_SNAP encapsulation of IP packets. The
			default (LLC_SNAP_SUPPORT undefined) is to use VC encapsulation of IP packets.
			** OBSOLETE ** - LLC_SNAP_SUPPORT is now automatic.			
			

Ant
---
08Nov95,14Dec95,29/6/96.			
