
Citrix ICA Client for Acorn RISC OS
-----------------------------------

This is a beta release of the client. See bottom of file for copyright
messages. As beta software it has not been audited and no guarantee is
made or implied as to its stability or reliability. 

This software is not to be distributed further.

This client will connect to a WinFrame server using the ICA 3
protocol.

The following driver stack is implemented

  TCP/IP transport
  CRYPT1 encryption

The following virtual drivers are supported

  Thinwire 3.1
  ClientPrinter
  ClientPrinter1.5

Note that the icons may change in future.


Platforms
---------

This client has been used successfully on

 - StrongARM RiscPC running RISC OS 3.70 over modem and ethernet.
 - Boca NC with modem.
 - NC Model 1 running RISC OS NC2 over ethernet.
 - NC Model 1 running NC OS 1.06 over ethernet.

It supports 16 and 256 colour mode therefore it should work on any
machine running RISC OS 3.1 or later.

The persistent cache is not enabled by default. It is working but has
not been extensively tested. If enabled use with care.

Connecting
----------

To connect to a server prepare an ICA file (example provided) and run
in one of the following two ways.

Method 1:

 - Load the client software by double-clicking on !ICAClient
 - Connect to a server by double-clicking on the ICA file
 - Return to the RISC OS desktop by pressing Shift F1 within Windows

 - Return to Windows desktop by clicking on the ICAClient icon
   OR
 - Quit the ICAClient from the iconbar menu.

Method 2:

 - Ensure the client has been booted
 - Double-click on the ICA file to load and run the client
 - Return to the RISC OS desktop by pressing Shift F1 within Windows
   The client will restore the Desktop and quit.

The advantage of method 2 is that it can easily be triggered from a
web page and it only loads the one toolbox module and so requires less
memory.



INI file
--------

The only INI file element that is worth changing currently is the
'WindowsCache' line in 'module.ini'. This specifies the size of the
client cache in 1K chunks. The default is 3072 which is suitable for a
RISC PC but probably too large for a NC. However the client will only
claim at most half the available memory for its cache.


Screen resolution
-----------------

The default in the application INI file is to use the current screen
resolution. The ncnt.ica file overrides this with 640x480. Simply
comment out the HRES and VRES lines (insert semicolon at the start) to
use the current size or fill in other values as required. If the
requested mode cannot be selected then 640x480 will be used.


Printing
--------

The currently selected RISC OS printer is used for all printer
output. It appears on the CLIENT\LPT1: port in the printer manager and
also in the Client Network. You will need to set the appropriate
printer driver within Windows for the printer or else garbage will be
printed.

If you exit disconnect from a Windows session with a print job still
in progress and you reconnect without the printer connected/configured
then you may find that you just get a white screen after logging
on. This is because the client is locked up trying to write data to
the non-existent printer. To cure this you will have to ask the
administrator to kill the print job or to log on from a Windows client
and kill the job yourself.


Launching from a web page
-------------------------

 1) Add the following line to the MimeMap file.

--------------- cut here ---------------------
application/x-ica   ICA   AD0   .ica
--------------- cut here ---------------------

 2) Configure the web server with the equivalent mapping (consult
appropriate documentation for details).

 3) If using Fresco then add the following line to !Fresco.runables

--------------- cut here ---------------------
AD0
--------------- cut here ---------------------

If the runables file doesn't exist then create it with just those 3
characters contained within.

 4) Ensure that !ICAClient is booted.

 5) If using NC2 ROMs then you must load ICAClient:KeyWatch *before*
NCFresco starts. Otherwise NCFresco's detection of handset presses may
go wrong.

 6) Save the ICA file created earlier on your web server with the
extension .ica (and file type text if working over Acorn NFS) and
place a link to it on a web page.

You should find then that following the link will automatically launch
the ICA client from Fresco or NCFresco. Shift F1 should then take you
back to the web page. From Browse save the downloaded file to your
hard disc and then double-click on it - or if you've already loaded
ICAClient then drag the ICA icon directly to the ICAClient icon.

Copyright (c) 1990-1998, Citrix Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1998, Acorn Computers Ltd.

Citrix, WinView, WinFrame and ICA are registered trademarks of Citrix
Systems, Inc.

eof !Help
