ResEd issues list
-----------------

 (Note: this document was written and discussed during development, and
        most of the "TO DO" actions have been completed; however, the
        discussion surrounding some of the "DEFER" points may be relevant
        for future iterations of the product.)


GENERAL

12 SAH  31-Mar-94  -  TO DO

The !Help support scheme isn't perfect - for example, only the first of a
pair of adjusters responds properly.

  The following changes need to be made:
    - Distinguish between "editing" window and "palette" window.
    - Distinguish various types of gadget dbox.
    - Distinguish amongst the various "misc" object class dboxes.
    - Process "multi-icon" WinEdit items properly (eg adjuster pairs).
    - Enable Menu help

  Not to mention writing the help messages themselves ...

  Don't forget to check out use of escape sequences to minimise the size of
   the help text - see the PRM/Aideen/Ed's special hacks ...


SHELL  -  TO DO (part)

3  SAH

Different display formats would be nice.  Different sort orders too (easy to
add - at least Sort By Name and Sort By Type). Current sort order is
case-sensitive, too ...

  I think the sort order for the icons representing object templates inside
  a resource file window should be case-insensitive.

  The other suggestions should be noted as possible future enhancements, as
   should the possibility of a "Do not sort" option which leaves icons where
   they were dragged in - at least for the duration of the session.


WINDOW

21 MFC  07-Jun-94  -  TO DO

Use "new" system font for the text in a keyboard shortcuts window - so that
anti-aliased system font appears where appropriate (Wimp_TextOp from 3.5?).

  I think this should be fixed - Neil will help!


24 MFC  10-Jun-94  -  TO DO

The UI for creation and editing of keyboard shortcuts is far from ideal; two
immediate problems are:
  - it's not possible to drag'n'drop objects into the "Show object" field,
     since the editing dialogue box is transient;
  - you have to know the (decimal or hex) code of the key you wish to define
Options for modified/new design include:
  - menu instead of dbox for editing and creation
  - menu for keys (deal with modifiers and characters separately)
  - direct "type-in" for keys

  I suggest combining the two keyboard shortcuts windows to make a single
  persistent dialogue box which includes:

    - a scrolling pane containing the list of keyboard shortcuts (as now);
    - writable icons for specifying or displaying the details of a single
       keyboard shortcut; these would be as the current transient dbox with
       the addition of a special "Key" icon, and the removal of the Cancel
       and OK action buttons;
    - Local action buttons "Update" and "Delete" (as now, less "Edit");
    - Action buttons "Cancel" and "OK" (as now).

  Entries in the scrolling pane can be selected as now, and the "Delete"
  button will delete any current selection.

  Double-clicking on an entry will copy its details into the writable icons,
  where they can be edited by the user.

  The "Update" action button will add the keyboard shortcut defined by the
  writable icons to the scrolling pane; any shortcut for the same key already
  in the pane is replaced by the new definition.

  The purpose of the "Key" icon is to allow the user to type the key
  directly; for example, if he presses CTRL A then the "Key" icon will
  display "^A" and the "Key code" writable &1. To achieve this effect, the
  "Key" icon can be a display icon with a button type of "Click". When the
  user clicks on the icon, ResEd will place the caret into the window
  invisibly, and change the colour of the display's background to indicate
  that it is active. All keypresses will now go to the window, and ResEd can
  do what it wishes with them - in this case, filling in the "Key" and "Key
  code" fields appropriately.

  RISC OS 3.50 has a specific list of "key names" that the Wimp uses to
  recognise keyboard-shortcuts in menus; these are the ones which should
  appear in the "Key" icon.

  Note that it is now also possible to drag object templates to drop them
  into the "Show object" writable.

  Finally, the Menu CSE should employ a similar facility to set the keyboard
  shortcut in the menu entry properties dialogue box.


35 MFC  18-Jul-94  (Also MH 24-Aug-94)  -  TO DO

When an action button becomes the "default" button - or vice-versa - should
!ResEd change its size appropriately to allow for the bigger border?

  Yes - it will be repositioned so that its centre-point is unmoved - subject
  to the coordinates of its top left hand corner remaining multiples of 4 OS
  units.

  Note that the border size is independent of the icon's size.


40 MFC  20-Jul-94  -  DEFER

At present, bit 30 in a gadget's flags word indicates that the gadget is to
be painted first. Perhaps a set of bits containing a priority value would be
better: only ResEd would look at these, and would then order the gadgets
accordingly before writing them out to the window object template. Presumably
the addgadget method would have to be altered to say where the gadget was to
be inserted in the list.

  Leave this for a future enhancement (I wonder what feedback we'll receive
  during Beta?)


53 MFC  11-Aug-94  -  TO DO

The specification calls for other buttons in a group to be surrounded by a
black dotted border whenever one of them is selected. I suggest a better
interface would be to add a menu entry "Select radio group" which is ungreyed
only if exactly one radio button is selected; choosing this item selects all
buttons in the group. This idea could be extended to select the next/previous
writable, the default/cancel action button, the default focus writable, ...
See also (36) and (37).

  How about replacing the current menu entry "Select radio group" by the
  entry "Select special =>" which leads to the following sub-menu:

           Select                Entry faded unless:

     Radio group          Selection consists of radio buttons from one group
     -----------------
     Next writable        Exactly one writable is selected
     Previous writable    Exactly one writable is selected
     Default writable     Default window focus is neither none nore invisible
     -----------------
     Default action       A default action button is defined
     Cancel action        A Cancel action button is defined


54 MFC  12-Aug-94  -  TO DO

Numberrange gadgets can have their display fields resized by dragging the
internal resize ear - should there also be a way of specifying the size
numerically? (eg in the numberrange's properties dbox somewhere). And should
dragging one numberrange ina multiple selection move all of them - and should
the moves be affected by grid lock?

  I suspect that the ability to change the size of a display field inside a
  numberrange should only be present if the numberrange has a slider - and
  that the display size field should be ignored if no slider is present.

  In other words, if the numberrange has just a numerical display, or just a
  slider, then this always fills the extent when the gadget is plotted.
  [Neil has agreed to do this]

  Assuming this, then the internal resize ear would be used just to specify
  where the display field finishes and the slider starts.

  In which case:

    - It should be possible to set this value explicitly in the numberrange's
      properties dialogue box.

    - Resizing should respond to grid lock (as other resizing does).

    - But only one numberrange at a time is affected by dragging.


62 PL   17-Aug-94  (also DM  31-Aug-94)  -  DEFER

If one labelled box is on top of another (or behind it) it may not be
possible to select one or other of them.

With some combinations of gadgets, it is sometimes impossible to select a
gadget that has been obscured by another. The 'gadget selection' mechanism
does not I believe support anything which will allow such a gadget to be
selected. This problem will appear mostly when using the 'Button' gadget.

My [ie DM's] suggestion is this:

If the user holds down a key (e.g. ALT or CTRL) whilst trying to select a
gadget by clicking on it, ResEd will look for any other gadgets behind the
gadget on which the user has clicked. If one exists, that gadget will be
selected. If the user repeats this process, ResEd should look behind the
currently selected gadget thus allowing the user to select gadgets that are
more than one level deep.

  Leave this area for Future enhancements.

  If ResEd supports selection of obscured gadgets, then the user might assume
  that the order of these gadgets is defined and guaranteed - but this is not
  so: ordering may change when gadgets are moved by dragging, for example.


67 MC   19-Aug-94  (also MH  24-Aug-94)  -  TO DO

When a slider's orientation is changed, ResEd should also change its bounding
box in a sensible way! (ie swap coordinates)

  Yes - the slider's centre-point should remain fixed (subject to alignment
  of the top left hand corner to 4 OS unit boundaries).


72 DEV  23-Aug-94  -  DEFER

ResEd could allow the user to specify event numbers and component IDs as
identifiers, and could maintain a dictionary mapping these names to numbers
determined as necessary. An extra menu option would create a header file.

  Leave as a future enhancement: this extension needs to be thought through
  carefully, and will need changes to resource file format to retain the
  dictionary between editing sessions.


73 DEV  23-Aug-94  -  TO DO

Should the group number of a radio button be displayed in the radio button's
properties dialogue box? Should it be settable?

  Yes and no.


74 DM   26-Aug-94  -  REJECTED

Although the grid option in ResEd can make positioning gadgets in a window
quite easy, it can still be quite difficult getting the icon positioning
right when working on a large window. This same problem applies to Impression
Style when creating or repositioning Frames. Style gets around this problem
by using guide lines that extend from each corner of the bounding box of the
selected Frame on the x and y axis when the object is being dragged. Perhaps
it would be a good idea if ResEd were to implement this.

  I'm not very fond of this idea, but I don't really know why - perhaps
  because the extra lines make it less easy to see exactly where the object
  that you're dragging lies. It's also not supported directly by the Wimp.


82 MFC  05-Sep-94  -  REJECTED

The new "Align" menu does not allow alignment of, eg, left and right sides
simultaneously. This means that it is not possible to align *and* make the
same width in one go. In fact, the operation of "making the same width" is
independent of alignment, and so - if required - should really be a separate
operation. Perhaps another submenu to make same width/height/size would be
worthwhile.

  Sounds like over-complicating the UI. It's very easy to create gadgets of
  the same type that are all the same size (SHFT/DRAG to make a copy), and -
  with the possible exception of writables and displays - there isn't much
  requirement to make gadgets of different types the same size.

  In any case, a selection of gadgets can be made all the same size by using
  the "Coordinates" dialogue after noting down the desired size.


OTHERS

1  Versioning  -  DEFER (dynamic versioning)/TO DO (!Help files)

The exact behaviour of ResEd and the use of version numbers for object
classes needs to be thought out.

 a) Resource file versioning

  A resource file consists of a File Header followed by a sequence of Object
  Templates. Each Object Template consists of:
    - three words to locate the tables (let's call this the Table Index);
    - a (generic) Object Template Header;
    - a (class-specific) Object Template Body;
    - the three tables.

  The ResEd shell needs to know the size of the Table Index, the format of
  the Object Template Header, and the format of the tables.

  If any of these change, then a new version number must be assigned - but
  there is no need to assign a new version number just because a new object
  class - or a change to an existing class - has been made.

  The ResEd shell may accept a number of versions of resource files as input,
  but will always produce output files of a particular version. For example,
  version 0.14 of !ResEd accepts resource files of version 100 or 101, but
  will only generate files whose format conforms to version 101.

 b) Object class versioning

  The shell passes an Object Template to its appropriate CSE for editing, and
  so a CSE is sensitive to changes in the Table Index, the generic Object
  Template Header, the Object Template Body and the three tables themselves.

  Each Object Template includes a version number identifying its format, and
  this must be changed whenever any of the above structures change.

  [Note that to avoid the problem of moving the location of the version
  number itself, the shell always extracts the version number from the Object
  Template and passes it to the CSE in a fixed position in the Wimp Message
  that informs the CSE that an object is waiting to be edited. This means
  that a CSE can use the version number to determine where the version number
  is stored.]

  Each CSE may accept a number of versions of objects as input, but will
  always send back to the shell object templates of a particular version.
  For example, the current version of the Menu CSE accepts menu templates of
  versions 100 and 101, but will only return menu templates that conform to
  version 101 to the shell.


  Thus the version of the Shell determines which resource file versions can
  be edited, and what version of resource file is produced - and the version
  of a CSE determines which object class versions can be edited, and which
  are generated.

  How can this information be presented to the user? (Note that at present
  it's not even possible to determine which version of a CSE your copy of
  ResEd contains.)

  One possibility is to include such details in (each) application's !Help
  file. This is straightforward to do, but suffers from two disadvantages:

     - Only the top-level !Help file (ie for the shell) is immediately
        accessible (others can only be accessed after opening !ResEd.CSE);
     - I have to remember to update the !Help file whenever a CSE changes.

  A more dynamic approach is to add a new menu entry "CSE info =>" to the
  icon bar menu, which leads to a sub-menu which is constructed dynamically
  according to the number of CSE's available (loaded?). The sub-menu is
  titled "Info" and has one entry for each CSE of the form "<CSE name> =>"
  which leads to an Info box for that CSE.


  I suggest using !Help files for this release, and leaving the dynamic
  option as a Future Enhancment.


2  Consistency check  -  DEFER

The contents of a resource file need to be checked for consistency - but
under user control. Probably a new menu entry "Check" is required. This will
require careful thought as to how to implement it.

  Add menu entry "Check" as the last entry of the "File" sub-menu of the
  Shell's main document window menu. Choosing this entry initiates a check
  of the currently selected object templates.

  The results of the check are displayed in a scrolling text window (like
  ResTest) which itself has a menu with a single entry "Save =>" which leads
  to a standard Save box.

  Two new message protocols must be defined:

    a)  Shell asks CSE to check a specific object template.

    b)  CSE asks Shell for information about a named object template; does it
        exist, and, if so, what is its class?

  This looks like a lot of work ...

  In fact, it's probably better to consider this as a separate application -
  like !ResTest - which can be easily distributed later. One useful check
  would be to list all the event numbers defined in the file.
    

3  Extensibility  -  DEFER (d) .../TO DO (a), (b), (c)

What provisions must ResEd make for extensibility?

  It's easy to install a new CSE to cater for a new object class, and a new
  version of the Window CSE can be installed to cater for a new gadget type.

  However it would be nice if (any version of) the Window CSE could perform
  limited editing and processing of unknown gadgets (rather than rejecting
  any window object that contains them as it does at present).

  Note that this means that the version number of a window object template
  should only change when some generic aspect of the template changes, or
  when an incompatible change is made to an existing gadget layout; it should
  *not* change simply because a new gadget type has been added.

  (Perhaps a future enhancement would version gadgets, and then the Window
   CSE could treat a known gadget of an unknown version in exactly the same
   way as an unknown gadget type.)

  The Window CSE can process unknown gadget types as follows:

    When loading, information in the window object's relocation table is used
    to classify each word of the gadget's body as one of the following:
      - an integer
      - a string reference
      - a message reference
      - an object offset   (assumed to be an internal pointer)
    and a "map" is constructed; the body is then "disassembled" in the same
    way as a known gadget, and stored internally with its associated map.

    When saving, the gadget template is reassembled from the internal format
    making use of the map to create the appropriate relocation entries.

  This limited functionality (of unknown gadgets being loaded and saved -  ie
  not thrown away!) can be enhanced in stages as follows:

  a) Try to display them (by calling PlotGadget); it would be nice if
     PlotGadget could guarantee to at least display a bounding box.

  b) Allow repositioning, resizing, copying, deletion.

  c) Create a generic "properties" dbox which contains:
       - Component id
       - Help message text and length
       - Faded flag

  d) Add a section similar to the following to the properties dbox:

                    Offset [   ] (<>)

                       Integer           ________________

                       String    ________________________

                       Message   ________________________

                       Sprite reference  * Client  * Wimp

                       Object offset ____________________

      Clicking on the adjuster buttons steps the "Offset" up/down restricted
      to valid offsets within the object's body.

      For a given value of the offset, one of the five lines underneath will
      be unfaded and the adjacent writable initialised to the current value
      of that word of the gadget. The user can edit this field and save the
      result.

  e) Add a further section which allows the user to change the type and size
     of the gadget, and add an "unknown gadget" prototype to the "Gadgets"
     palette: this provides a fully-fledged "new gadget type" development
     tool.

  I suggest implementing (a), (b) and (c) for Beta, and leaving the rest as
  future enhancements.


4  Panes  -  TO DO

How should ResEd implement panes?

  The Window Properties dbox has a new option icon "Toolbar" which has the
   effect of setting the "Toolbar" flag for the window object, and of
   resetting and greying-out a number of other fields in the dbox (actually
   the majority of them).

  The main editing window menu has a new entry "Toolbars ..." (after "Key
   shortcuts ..." and before "Grid =>") which leads to a permanent dbox with
   four writable fields* - one for each possible toolbar. Window objects can
   be dragged and dropped onto these fields, but only those with the Toolbar
   flag bit set will be accepted. Alternatively, an object name can be
   entered explicitly.  [* and four corresponding option icons]
