

      CHANGES TO ISOFORM APPLICATION TO PERMIT WRITING OF MSDOS FILES
                    AND DIRECTORIES TO ISO9660 IMAGE


23-8-94

The modifications described in this document allow ISOFORM to write MSDOS files
and directories with file extetensions to an ISO9660 image.


Phase 1:
--------

ISOFORM operates conventionally until it encounters one of the following types
of object:

1. A file or directory with an ID name containing a '/' character four 
   characters from the end of the ID name.
   (N.B. an MSDOS file translated by DOSFS).  (see note 5)

2. A file having filetype DOS (7fe4).         (see note 4).

In either case, ISOForm does the following:

1. It issues a warning message:

   "MSDOS file or directory  %s with non-null file extension or filetype DOS 
    (&fe4)
    will replace '/' with '.' and suppress CDFS system info"

2. The type of the object is set to one of the newly defined object 
   types (type_DOSFILE (4) or type_DOSDIR(5)) depending on whether the object is
   a file or directory.
   (N.B. type_DOSFILE and type_DOSDIR are the same as type_FILE and type_DIR
   but have bit 2 set - this makes checking easier).

Phases 2 & 3
-------------

When writing the image it is not sufficient to merely replace the '/' by a '.' 
in the object ID output to the ISO9660 image. CDFS expects period chars only at
the end of the file or directory id. If CDFS sees a period elsewhere it will be
passed straight onto filer etc causing serious problems since periods are used 
in RISC OS to specify the path.

The solution is to suppress the extra information contained in the file 
descriptor (FD) or directory descriptor (DD) which identifies the object as 
RISC OS. In detail, RISC OS objects contain 32 bytes of extra information in
the  system use field of the DD/FD which identifies the object as being
RISC OS CDFS.

Examination of the ISO9660 images produced on an IBM PC have shown that MSCDEX 
objects contain no such extra information. Thus objects which were marked as 
being MSDOS files or directories in phase 1 are written to the image with 
the '/' replaced by a '.' and the CDFS specific information suppressed. When 
viewed on CDFS the resulting objects appear as data files and
the '.' is transformed to a '/' avoiding any problems. When viewed on an MSDOS platform
the object appears as a PC file/dir with the correct extension.

Having to suppress the extra 32 bytes of CDFS system info means that extra 
work was necessary to correct the DD and FD length fields and to ensure that
the two path tables were calculated correctly.


NOTES:
---------

1. MSDOS objects are also written differently to CDFS objects in that the file 
version ';1' is not included in the object id.

2. When reading long MSDOS files e.g. RESOURCE.FRK it is necessary ensure that 
truncation to 10 chars by RISC OS is switched off.

   i.e use:
   
   *configure truncate off

3. RISC OS still truncates files to ten chars when copied to ADFS. Thus
MSDOS  files must be held on a MSDOS floppy, MSDOS partition or MSDOS CD-ROM
and  included in the ISO9660 image via a link file.

4. It is questionable whether a file of type DOS (&fe4) and a null filename 
extension should be written with CDFS information suppressed. 
Acorn may wish to make this an option.

5. It was decided NOT to require that both the filetype be DOS and that the ID
name contains a filename extension before the object is treated as a MSDOS
file. This was to allow copying of DOS files from CD-ROM which do not appear
as type DOS.

6. One must be careful of RISC OS files with a '/' character four chars from
the end of the ID name as CDFS system information will be suppressed!



