
Getting started
---------------
Pressing the e-mail button on the toolbar will launch the e-mail client
and take you to the "TV Mail" welcome screen. At the top of the screen
is a row of buttons with the following meanings.

- TV Mail logo. Returns you to the welcome screen.
- Quit. Returns you to the browser.
- Write. Create a new mail message.
- Address book. Add/delete entries in the address book.
- Read. Download/delete messages on the mail server.
- Inbox. Display a list of the downloaded messages.

Sending mail
------------
Press the 'Write' button and a new screen will appear. The top button
says 'Create New Message' and pressing this takes you to a blank mail
creation screen. Below this appears the entries in your address book
with 'To', 'Cc' and 'Bcc' check boxes next to each one, and underneath a
button that says 'Create mail to selected people'. Pressing this will
take you to the mail creation screen with the destination addresses
filled in as selected.

The mail creation screen is a form with the following text entry fields;
To, Cc, Bcc, Subject, Message. Below this are two buttons - 'Send' and
'Clear'.

Note that the Clear button (a form reset) does not work properly with
the version of NCFresco in the first Funai Ethernet release. It does
work properly with earlier versions of NCFresco, so either NCFresco's
form handling has become broken or our HTML is wrong in some way that
the new NCFresco objects to but earlier versions did not. I have not had
time to look into this yet.

Address book
------------
The address book screen is split into two halves. The top half is for
adding new entries. It contains 'Name' and 'Mail address' fields and an
'Add' button. The bottom half is for deleting entries. It shows all the
entries with a checkbox and underneath a button that deletes the checked
entries.

Reading mail
------------
The 'Read' screen has two columns of icons. The left column allows you
to download messages from the server and the right column allows you to
delete messages from the server.

There are three buttons in the left column; 'Receive new messages',
'Select messages to receive' and 'Receive all messages'. Pressing
'Receive new messages' will download all messages that have arrived
since the last one you read. Pressing 'Select messages to receive'
will download all the message headers and present you a list with the
details of each message and a checkbox allowing you to select the
messages to be downloaded. Pressing 'Receive all messages' will download
all the messages on the server.

There are two buttons in the right column; 'Delete old messages' which
deletes all the messages that were on the server up to the last one you
read, and 'Select messages to delete' which downloads the message
headers of all the messages on the server and allows you to select the
ones to be deleted. Note that the 'Delete old messages' option will
probably be removed from the next release since it isn't very useful and
risks deleting unread messages.

The receive and delete list selection screens both have the same format.
The button at the top left is 'Back'. Below this is the mail sorting
order selector (this is the same as for the inbox - see below), followed
by the message list and at the bottom is the button that performs the
action on the selected messages.

If you select any of the receive messages buttons you will be taken to
the inbox screen after downloading has finished.

Inbox
-----
The inbox shows you a list of the messages that have been downloaded
into memory. If you have not yet downloaded any a message asking you to
press the 'Read' button will be shown instead.

Above the list of messages appears a drop list and button that allows
you to change the sorting order of the messages. To use it select the
order you want from the list box and press the adjacent 'Go' button. The
entries in the list box are 'Date', 'Sender', 'Subject', 'Size'
ascending then the same items descending.

Mail message
------------
When you select a mail message to read it is displayed in a screen with
buttons at the top that read 'Back', 'Print', 'Reply' and 'Forward'. On
the next line are buttons that take you to the next and previous entries
in the inbox. This is followed by the message itself, then finally a
button that takes you back to the top of the screen.

Debug info
----------
You can get the mail program to tell you the server/user name settings
it read from the smart card by going to the address book and adding a
new entry with both the name and email address as 'debug'. This is
useful if there are problems connecting to the server and you want to
make sure the settings are correct.
