
STBWeb Release notes
====================

 * Version 0.19 (based on Fresco® 0.90)

New toolbox based interface and loads of other stuff.

Use the Obey file in this directory to show the toolbox modules. then
copy them into your !System.Modules directory (or !System.310.Modules
is you have one).

To change back to the old-style interface look in thw !Run file.

 * Version 0.18 (based on Fresco 0.90)

Loads of changes too numerous to mention, now has tables and frames.
Tables not 100% fixed. Some alignment problems and may crash occaisionally.

 * Version 0.17 (based on Fresco 0.89)

Heavy rewrite of the frontend to enable frames support.
A number of new variables in the !Run file for configuration.
Frames and client-side imagemaps supported.
Various changes made to the keyboard handling. mode.keyboard
in config file changes bias between keyboard and mouse driving.
Several fixes to parsing code.

 * Version 0.15 (based on Fresco 0.89)

Now integrated into the SrcFiler and ROMmable. Parsing of frames now
done (no visible result though). Better fetch status display. Extra
information displayed in status bar on 1,2,3 keys. Various fixes
to highlighting and caret movement.

 * Version 0.13 (based on Fresco 0.89)

Integrated new sources from ANT. 
Better highlight moving, stays on page and is dragged by scrolling,
works properly with form elements.
Cured reset to top on end of document at end of download.
Changed way maps work - removd acceleration.
Added registered trademark note to this document :-)

 * Version 0.11 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Some support for STB1 keys.
Fixed !Run file to work on trial properly.
A few redraw bugs fixed on scrolling and highlighting.

 * Version 0.10 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Merged backend with ANT.
Now supports highlight moving using the cursor left and right keys.
Enter on an image map enters map mode.
Home key (up/left) toggled URL and title in statuswin.
Fixed bug in image maps introduced in 0.08
There are known display problems with the moving links and with
movement on a form.
Removed some leftovers from the !Run file.

 * Version 0.08 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Responds to wimp redraw messages.
Non-wimp error box implemented.
In place replay movie playing (bit hacky - see !Help file).
No longer tries to load a file into memory if it knows it can't 
render it itself (eg postscript, replay).
Will print the current page when the print key is pressed.

 * Version 0.07 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Put Resolver and MimeMap stuff into !Run file to keep things simple.
Now built with a proper licence string 'Online Media Internal Use ONLY'.

 * Version 0.06 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Fixed problem with displaying on RISC OS 3.5 in 8bit or less colour.
Modified fetch status slightly.
Created a Standalone directory with built in MimeMap and Resolver.

 * Version 0.05 (based on Fresco 0.88)

A tryout of an idea for the fetch status indicator - it won't remain
in that form....
New NHTwitter (0.07) installed.

 * Version 0.04 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Authentication supported. Can crash if you try and back out of the page 
though. 
Fixed colour bugs in RO3.5 with inbuilt sprites. 
Cursor control of menus implemented.
Bug in cacheing code meant it didn't limit cache space used correctly.
Note cache size available *must* be greater than the size specified in
the config file or else strange errors will occur.

 * Version 0.03 (based on Fresco 0.88)

A number of redraw bugs corrected. 
Open new URL (Shift F2) implemented via a custom Form.
Caret implemented properly.
'0' key will toggle anti-twittering - which defaults to the correct
value for the given monitor.
Status bar and display scaled for middle 80% of whatever the current
screen mode is.
Sprites file trimmed drastically (over 80K saved!).

 * Version 0.02 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Minor changes.

 * Version 0.01 (based on Fresco 0.88)

Initial release, it works but there are a lot of things to clear up.

A RAM disc or similar containing !Scrap will be required on an STB.

The Page up/down and cursor keys will also perform the obvious actions from
the list above until hotspot highlighting is implemented.

No scaling is done - the fonts are sized a bit higher than normal for now.

The status bar requires a fair amount of work, specifically the the fetch
status indicator, and redraws with anti-twittering.

---
Fresco is a Registered Trademark of ANT Limited

