Known bugs in ResEd shell
-------------------------

1  SAH  -  NOTABUG

There is not enough space for the object names in the document display,
especially with fancy fonts.  Either need to make the space provided for
names bigger or fix up the layout dynamically according to the widest name.

2  SAH  -  NOTREPRO

Sometimes copying an object (SHIFT-drag) in an almost-empty doc window does
not get the window updated.  Can't always reproduce this.

3  SAH  -  COMMENT

Different display formats would be nice.  Different sort orders too (easy to
add - at least Sort By Name and Sort By Type). Current sort order is
case-sensitive, too ...

4  MFC  12-Apr-94  -  NOTABUG

"Double disambiguation" can happen:

  Document window contains Menu and Menu.1
  Drag in Menu and Menu.2 from another document window
  Says: "2 names disambiguated" because:
         Menu is first renamed as Menu.2
         Menu.2 then has to be renamed as Menu.3

Can this be avoided easily? Does it matter?

5  MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Click ALT-SEL on an icon's name, edit it to a duplicate name, and hit RETURN;
an error is displayed. It would be nice if the icon name remained selected
for editing after the error box had been dismissed.

6  MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

The vertical staggering of newly-created and/or loaded document windows is
not quite right (at least, in mode 31): the final one whose base is at the
bottom of the window partly obscures the title bar of the one created
immediately before. See also (42).

7  MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

DRAG-ADJ on an icon does not work as described in section 3.5: it does not
close the source document window, it does not always use the correct icon
when dragging, and does not select icons exactly like the Filer. I think
it might be best to remove this from the specification.

8  MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

SHIFT-DRAG-SEL/ADJ not on an icon does not work as specified in section 3.5:
that is, the SHIFT modifier does not limit the selection to items wholly
enclosed by the lassoo as it should. (See (36)).

9  MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

DragASprit does not appear to be used for single icons even if the CMOS bit
is set (see section 3.6).

10 MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

No warning is given before messages are imported.

11 MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Error-checking for imported message files is very poor - even a rubbish text
file does not generate an error.

12 MFC  12-Apr-94  (and DM  31-Aug-94)  -  FIXED

Using the arrow keys to "nudge" the mouse pointer does not appear to be
implemented.

It does not seem to be possible to move a selection using the cursor keys.
This is a feature that has been implemented in several third party
applications (and in fact, !Draw) that makes fine control over a selection a
painless process (see !Draw for an example).

If the user is in the process of dragging a gadget or selection of gadgets
(by holding down the SELECT button on the mouse) the arrow keys would work in
the same way as the mouse with the exception that the distance by which the
selection is moved is not the currently configured mouse step but the minimum
step size allowable.

13 MFC  12-Apr-94  -  FIXED

It's possible to have *no* radio button "on" in the "Object flags" dialogue
box by using ADJ. This is also a bug in !Menu (ie it's in common code).

14 MFC  13-Apr-94  -  FIXED

Title of palette window should be "Object palette", not "Object Palette".

15 SAH  31-Mar-94  -  FIXED

The lasso used for enclosing objects being dragged does not "circulate"; this
is due to technical problems!

16 SAH  -  FIXED

Get a proper filetype allocated - and fix in common.h.filetypes, and in names
in sprite files, types of Palette files, etc.

17 SAH  -  FIXED

Get proper message numbers allocated - and fix in common.h.resed.

18 MFC  19-Apr-94  -  FIXED

More thought needs to go into document version numbers. At present, there is
a scheme whereby a document acquires as version number the version number
of the first resource file loaded into it - or the DEFAULT_VERSION if it is
a new document. I think it should probably be simpler: that is, !ResEd always
saves documents with the latest version numer (and in the latest format);
this is what the Menu CSE does. See document_load(..).

19 MFC  25-Apr-94  -  NOTABUG

Newly-created windows ("Untitled<n>") are not staggered down the screen.
I can't duplicate this behaviour (13-Sep-94).

20 MFC  13-May-94  -  NOTABUG

Treatment of "ADJUST-Click" on the Close icon of a document window is not
satisfactory: if the document has been altered since opening, the parent
filer window is opened *as well as* the DocWarn window - sometimes partly
obscuring the latter. Need to check required behaviour in the Style Guide.
[This is the same behaviour as, eg, in !Draw - but !Edit doesn't bother
with a warning box and simply leaves the document window open if it's been
modified. It seems to be difficult to arrange for the warning window to
appear *on top of* the filer viewer.]

21 MFC  26-May-94  -  FIXED

I've just added code to wimp_load_template(..) in common.c.wimp so that any
text in icons is terminated with a null character. This should really be
generalized to cope with sprite names and validation strings.

22 MFC  02-Jun-94  (and MC 25-Jul-94, PL 25-Jul-94)  -  FIXED

Altering the object flags of a window object inside a document window does
not result in the window being marked as "modified" (ie no * in the window
title).

23 MFC  15-Jun-94  -  COMMENT

When auto-scrolling, speed of scroll is determined by how far away the
pointer is from the "margin". When scrolling downwards, a limit to this
distance is set by the window base; when scrolling upwards, the (larger)
limit is set by the top of the window's title bar. This means that you can
autoscroll upwards faster than downwards!

24 MFC  15-Jun-94  -  COMMENT

Why does the "parcel" flicker when dragging a selection of objects and the
pointer is right against the lefthand edge and over the icon bar?

25 MCC  15-Jun-94  -  FIXED

Drop a text file on an empty (and hence unmodified) document window; it marks
itself as "modified" with an asterisk in the title bar.

26 MFC  25-Jul-94  -  FIXED

Does not handle 12-character sprite names for object class icons.

27 MC   25-Jul-94  -  FIXED

Info box should have display fields with "marbled" background.

28 NK   08-Aug-94  -  FIXED

Names constructed for disambiguation purposes are not legal object names,
since they contain '.' - should use '_' instead.

29 MFC  08-Aug-94  -  FIXED

When re-importing edited messages, any length fields associated with the new
messages are not reset: for example, if a five-character help string is
replaced by a 20 character string, the length remains set to 6.

30 DH   09-Aug-94  -  FIXED

Remove "Test ..." menu entry from File submenu of main document window menu.

31 IJ   10-Aug-94  -  COMMENT

ResEd should include a "consistency check" on objects and resource files
before saving them.

32 MFC  17-Aug-94  -  COMMENT

The palette of object templates retains its selected status across closes
and opens; is this desirable?

33 MFC  18-Aug-94  -  FIXED/DEFER

SHFT/ESC and SHFT/RET do not function as expected with the transient dboxes
SaveAs, Object flags, Copy and Rename. All sorted except SHFT/ESC - which the
Wimp does not pass through to the application.

34 MFC  18-Aug-94  -  FIXED

Only ^A and ^Z keyboard shortcuts should be processed for the palette window.

35 DEV  23-Aug-94  -  TRANSFERRED

(From John Evans, Mijas Software)
John has large sprite files which he holds in "squashed" format. He has
modified res_sprite_init(..) (? - RISC_OSLib) so that this will load such
files correctly, and has sent the modifications to James Bye. He'd like
these to go into the appropriate places in the Toolbox, also.

36 MFC  01-Sep-94  -  FIXED

Lassoing icons with SHIFT held down does not behave as it should - that is,
even icons only partly enclosed by the lasso are (erroneously) included.
See (8).

37 MFC  07-Sep-94  -  DEFER

General - check that error handling is consistent and thorough.
Deferred, pending agreed guidelines. Current state - even if not consistent -
seems adequate operationally.

38 MFC  07-Sep-94  -  DONE

General - check WimpSlot sizes are appropriate.

39 TR   09-Sep-94  -  FIXED

ResEd does not respond to Pre-Quit messages properly - that is, it does not
restart the shut-down protocol after the user says "Discard".

40 MFC  23-Sep-94  -  FIXED

Whenever a resource file is loaded, ResEd should also load any Sprites file
that is present in the same directory (I think).

41 MC   06-Sep-94  -  FIXED

ResEd should fault object template names that start with "_" unless it has
been started with the "-private" option set.

42 SM   30-Aug-94  -  FIXED

Document windows can open over the icon bar. See also (6).

43 SM   30-Sep-94  -  FIXED

Shift/ADJ on the close icon of a document window should open the parent
directory (yes), and should leave the document window open (no).
