Help for Reverser
-----------------

Version 1.00 - 15th November 1996
Shareware - Copyright 1996 Peter Naulls
pnaulls@wave.co.nz


"So, What is it?"

!Reverser is a foreign filename formatter.


"A what?"

It takes filenames from other platforms (e.g. DOS, Unix) and converts them
into more RISC OS friendly filenames.


"Like what?"

Well, there might be a Unix file called "program.c".  When this is moved
to RISC OS, this becomes program/c, as RISC OS uses the fullstops as
directory serparators.  For programs to be compiled using compilers such
as gcc, the files need to be placed in "c" and "h" directories.  Not so bad
it there are a few files, but if there are tens, or even hundreds of files,
manually doing it will take quite a while.  Reverser does this all for you.


"Anything else?"

Picture files brought to RISC OS often have esentially useless extensions. E.g.
for picture/gif, Reverser will take off the "/gif" part. Reverser will 
optionally take off trailing "/"s too, left over from file truncations.


"Cool, I could really use this.  How does it work?"

The program is launched in the normal way, by double clicking the icon.
From the icon bar menu, off the Start entry, a save-as like box will appear.
The icon can be dragged to a directory, where it will begin converting all the
files it finds.

There are two options on the icon bar menu:

"Remove Trailing '/'" - If this is ticked, files without extensions, but
with leftover '/'s will have them removed.

"Recurse" - Reverser will recurse into any subdirectories it finds if this
is selected. 


"So, what files will it rename?"

Look in the file !Reverser.Extensions.  This contains the configuration.
Each line contains an extension, followed by an action. 

The first line contains:

c       rename

Which means that files ending in "/c" will have the "/c" removed, and will
be placed in a "c" directory.  e.g.  program/c -> c.program

Further down we have:

jpg	chop

Which means than files ending in "/jpg" will have it removed.
e.g.   picture/jpeg -> picture

At the moment, these are the only actions that Reverser understands.


"Is there anything it won't do?"

It won't rename directories, and it won't look at, or change filetypes.
It won't handle more than 19 extensions in the configuration file, nor
extensions with more than 4 letters.  

These limitations will be removed in a later version.


"Anything else?"

Reverser is shareware.  If you like it, and intend to use it, you
must send me 5UKP, or equivalent in your currency to:

Peter Naulls
28a Galloway Street
Hamilton
NEW ZEALAND

As a guide, 5UKP = NZ$11 and 11 German Marks.  Anyone registered will
receive free upgrades and support.

Any comments, suggestions, or general abuse to:

pnaulls@wave.co.nz




History
-------

Version 1.00 - 15th November 1996

Original version, it's taken me a while to get round to finishing, but here
it is.


Wishlist
--------

Checking for image files - e.g. DOS partitions and archives.
Optional filetype setting.
More Actions.
Room for more extensions.


