These notes are intended for whoever does further development work on !AudioCD:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the time of handing over, !AudioCD is in a releasable state and indeed has 
been released as version 1.19, 23-02-96.  

!AudioCD (version 1.19) contains no known bugs, however it has not been properly 
officially audited.  Despite this, there have been a large number of requests for 
the executables, which have been shipped out to external customers as part of the 
GenericCD ROM image.  When requests are made you should give a reminder that this 
code has not been officially audited and that it is still under development.   I 
advise doing an official release every couple of months or so to satisfy these 
requests.

Version 014 of the GenericCD ROM image has been properly audited, but it contains
a very old version of !AudioCD, and it does not include !VideoCD and !PhotoCD.
So far, no one has been interested in version 014 because it is too out of date.

Version 015 of the GenericCD ROM image should not be used.  It contains a bug.
I have removed it from all obvious places.

Version 016 of the GenericCD ROM image includes all of the cd apps but it has
a bug whereby cdfs got confused with cd types if a certain kind of video cd
entered the scene.  The fix for this (within !CD) is present in GenCD/017.

I advise reading through the "!CD User Guide", since it explains how to use
!AudioCD.  I also advise reading through the "Programmer's Guide To Interfacing
With !CD", since it explains how !AudioCD interfaces with !CD.  !CD's message
handling protocol has been widely tested over a long period of time by a number
of different people and is well established in terms of it being a correctly 
functioning piece of software.

Subsequent releases of !AudioCD should be checked into the source filer.

!AudioCD operates in NTSC and PAL.  It works out whether it's in an NTSC
or PAL screen mode and displays accordingly.  (The way in which it does this
could be improved).

Various flags can be turned on and off in "common.h", for example DEVELOPMENT__,
MEMORY_TRACE__, FN_TRACE__, SCREEN_DUMP__, and so on.

You need to update the version and date in AudioCD.s.AppName each time you
do a new release.

If you have any questions or need any help contact srose@omi.co.uk (Acorn
Network Computing).


