Known bugs in common code
-------------------------

1  SAH  01-Apr-94  -  FIXED

There's a bug somewhere in the code for null event handling in the drag/drop
area, since although interactor_set_timeout(25) is called, the events come
much more frequently.

2  SAH  01-Apr-94  -  NOTABUG

The distance() function doesn't *really* need to use sqrt!

3  SAH  01-Apr-94  -  DEFER

The "saveas" code doesn't handle the delayed "file is safe" message (as
returned by Email, for example).

4  MFC  31-May-94  -  FIXED

Need to understand the dragdrop code - Matt Cloke has added "solid-dragging"
to this, but his changes may not be complete; see comments in do_dragbox(..).

5  MFC  15-Jun-94  -  COMMENT

Solid drag-drop is not quite correct - although good enough for interchange
with (other copies of) ResEd. The problem lies inside dd_interactor(..) when
a Drag_Claim message is received which informs the sender that the claimant
is going to display the dragged object in its own way (ie flag bit 1 is set).
This causes the sender to re-call Wimp_DragBox with a type 7 (point drag) -
and, later, when the claimant changes his mind, Wimp_DragBox may be called
again with a type 5 (dashed box drag) to restore the status-quo. It is not
obvious how these calls will interact with the DragASprite calls - at best,
I guess a solid drag will turn into a dashed-box drag after some claimant
has itself displayed it in some personalised way.

Indeed, this is what happens - made worse because the window in which the
drag starts will claim the drag almost immediately, so you see just a flicker
of a solid sprite unless you move very fast!

6  MFC  16-Jun-94  -  COMMENT

Drag-drop allows you to drop selections on to the title bar of a window, or,
indeed, onto any of its furniture icons [this may be correct behaviour].

7  MFC  12-Jul-94  -  DEFER

Improve the way that version(..) works - so that creating new versions of
the CSEs also updates the version of the main program etc.

8  MFC  11-Oct-94  -  DEFER

Help messages generated whilst a drag is in progress refer to the object
over which the pointer lies, rather than to the drag itself. It turns out
to be difficult to sort this out - since Help request messages are always
sent to the owner of the window. This means that it's not possible to provide
a consistent message throughout a drag that goes from one window to another.
It doesn't seem worthwhile to provide support only for lasso operations and
moves within one window.
