; > ToDo

Questions for Om:-
1. What maximum bitrate do you need to support? 

It has not yet been determined what bit rates an STB2/2 will be able to
support. One complication to this is the computer overlays used for
displaying on-screen graphics such as pause icon, and possibly subtitles in
the future. The existing STBs use a 16bit/pixel overlay, which allows
arbitrary-coloured overlays. However this uses up a great deal of memory
bandwidth - using fewer bits/pixel would allow higher bit rates to be used.
Ideally I would draw up a table of maximum bit rate vs overlay pixel depth
but it's not easy, as:-

 a) I don't have MPEG 2 content at a wide range of bit rates - the stuff
    from the DVB satellite is all at the same rate (about 6Mbit/s);
 b) I'm not using representative hardware (STB1 rather than STB2), due to
    it being easier to debug stuff on a STB1;
 c) I don't currently have a server which is known to deliver data at a
    reliable rate.

Keith Ruttle informs me that Telecom Finland require to support 7Mbit/s

2. How deep an overlay is required, if at all?, eg is a single colour overlay
acceptable (green/transparent like on some TVs)?

Barry Mallett says 16 colours minimum.
      
3. Will the STB2/2 be based on the L64002 or on the newer L64005?
   The latter will require some software changes.

4. Is access to private stream data required?

Still to do on MPEG 2:-

 * Get ResetStream working - needed to support reposition or switch to
   fast-forward/fast-reverse - currently not working at all
   - about 2 days
 
 * Sort out video-to-audio synchronisation (seems to work OK for DVB content,
   but for MPEG 1 content we get some jitters).
   
 * Sort out audio-to-stream synchronisation
   - needs server capable of delivering MPEG 2 data at a guaranteed rate,
     plus content whose correct bitrate is known.
   
 * Check that the STB can cope with a 7 Mbit stream, with a 16 colour overlay
   - needs server capable of delivering at this rate
   - needs content encoded at this rate (we're talking to Telecom Finland
     about this)
   - may work on ARM7500FE based systems, but not with ARM7500?

 * Sort out slow-motion modes
   - Initial information from LSI Logic suggest that it may not be possible
     to play MPEG 2 material at even ratios such as 1/2, 1/4, because you end
     up having to display bottom field pictures on the top field. I haven't
     checked this out yet (on existing STBs we support 1/2, 1/3 and 1/4
     where the server allows it).

 * Replace SWI-based data-passing interface (MPEGVideo/Audio_FullPackets)
   with registered-handler-based one, to speed up the system performance
   (and therefore support higher bit rates). The same interface can also
   provide access to private streams. However it is easier to use this new
   interface just for private data, so if the extra performance is not
   required, it may not be worth making the video and audio decoders use
   this too.
    - I have designed most of this interface, but it needs some changes to
    make it workable.

Probably not required for STB2/2:

 * Provide proper support for selecting a given program out of a
   multi-program stream - may require hardware program filtering as on the
   DVB card. Jim Westwood is working on converting the DVB hardware to work
   with cable modems.
   
Other worries:

 * Apart from the material we have already recorded to disc from the various
   satellites, the only continuous content we have is the test broadcast of
   VH-1, MTV etc. At any time, this is liable to go off air, or become
   scrambled. (This has happened with several other satellites we used to get
   data from, such as Canal+, which has started scrambling since it went
   commercial).
