Note on "Disc changed" behaviour for the Sony CDU76E drive
----------------------------------------------------------


1  The problem
--------------

When repeated calls of REQUEST SENSE are made as a new disc is being loaded
into the drive, the following sequence of responses is received:

   Drive empty
   Drive empty                - as drive door closes
      ....
   Drive empty
   Disc may have changed
   Drive empty                - possibly more than one, but not many
   Drive becoming ready
   Drive becoming ready       - as drive spins up
      ....
   Drive becoming ready
   OK

Higher-level software (such as CDFS) assumes that the response "Disc may have
changed" means that there is now a disc in the drive which is ready to be
accessed, so becomes confused if a "Disc may have changed" error is followed
immediately by a "Drive empty" or "Drive becoming ready" error.


2  The solution
---------------

The solution to this problem is to defer any "Disc may have changed" response
until the drive is not empty and is ready for access; this is a reasonable
decision, since only those commands which play or read data from a disc can
possibly care whether the disc has changed or not.


The algorithm is as follows:

 On exit from the driver:

  If after executing an ATAPI command a CHECK condition is raised, REQUEST
  SENSE is issued to find out the cause. If the error is not "disc changed",
  then it is returned without further ado.

  If the command returns the "disc changed" error, a further REQUEST SENSE
  is issued; this is repeated until no more "disc changed" errors are
  returned.

  If there is now no error, then the drive must be in a state ready to
  receive a command and with a disc in place, and so the "disc changed" error
  is returned; otherwise the 'pendingdiscchange' flag is set, and the current
  error is returned in its place.

 On entry to the driver:

  If the 'pendingdiscchange' flag is not set execution proceeds in the normal
  way; otherwise REQUEST SENSE is issued instead to determine the current
  state of the drive. Again, this command is repeated if a further "disc
  changed" response is received.

  If there is no error (and so the drive is ready), the 'pendingdiscchange'
  flag is reset, and a "disc changed" error is returned; otherwise, the
  current error is returned. In neither case is the originally-requested
  command executed.


3  The exceptions
-----------------

However, the following commands are exempt from the processing above:

  INQUIRY
  MODE SELECT
  MODE SENSE
  SET CD SPEED
  PREVENT/ALLOW MEDIUM REMOVAL
  START/STOP UNIT (for close/open drawer - ie LoEj flag set - only)

The reason for the exemption is that these commands can execute regardless of
the presence or absence of a disc - so they should never, for example, return
the error "drive empty". The scheme above ensures that this is so.


4  And another thing ...
------------------------

Experiment shows that the Sony CDU76E drive does not always return "Disc
changed" when the disc has been changed; for example, the following sequence
of ATAPI commands can be executed without any errors being returned following
a soft reset:

   READ TOC
   <swap disc>
   READ TOC

or even:

   PLAY AUDIO
   <swap disc>
   PLAY AUDIO

This, of course, makes a complete mockery of all attempts by the ATAPI module
and CDManager to keep track of disc changes!

Further experimentation suggests that executing a READ command is sufficient
to "trigger" the mechanism for noting disc changes, as the following example
shows:

   READ (12)
   <swap disc>
   READ TOC    -   returns "disc changed" error

Furthermore, the mechanism needs to be re-triggered after each "disc changed"
error as suggested by these examples:

   READ (12)
   <swap disc>
   PLAY AUDIO  -   returns "disc changed" error
   <swap disc>
   PLAY AUDIO      [no error]

   READ (12)
   <swap disc>
   PLAY AUDIO  -   returns "disc changed" error
   READ (12)
   <swap disc>
   PLAY AUDIO  -   returns "disc changed" error

Finally, it seems that a null READ is sufficient: so whenever the drive
returns a "disc changed" error, the command READ (12) is issued to read zero
sectors starting at sector zero. It also seems that this command does not
have to be successful for the triggering to take place; for example, all is
well even if the drive is empty at this point.

This (touch wood!) seems to be sufficient to ensure that the driver
faithfully reflects all disc changes to CDManager.


Mike Challis
15-Mar-96

